---
title: 'Medievil'
date: 2020-04-18 12:00:00
author: 'Caleb Upson'
image: ../../images/medievil.jpg
tags:
    - Game Reviews
---

So, you'd like to join the Hall of Heroes? That's quite a daunting task.
Are you a noble knight ready to defend the honor of fair maidens on the
internet in the hopes that they finally see you as a romantic
possibility? No. Well then, have you fought valiantly in a grand battle?
You took about three steps onto the field and got an arrow through the
eye. Can't really spin that into a positive. Alright, what sort of
weaponry do you have? You rip off your arm and play whack-a-mole... This
might be a bit of an uphill journey as you pilot Sir Daniel Fortesque in
*Medivil*, a remake of the PS1 action-adventure title that saw our
jawless protagonist go up against the undead army of the evil sorcerer,
Zarok.

On your quest to save Gallowmere, Fortesque must hack-and-slash his way
through fairly linear levels to advance the story, each containing a
Chalice that can be collected once enough enemies have been slain to
expand your arsenal, get additional funds, or offer a health boost. The
gothic aesthetic gives rise to scenic exploration of the Dark Ages as
necromancy pits zombies and demons in your wake. The enhanced graphics
stay faithful to the original design elements, only seeking to create
details in the polygons and let you experience jacked British dentistry
in high definition. With expressive characters that provide backhanded
compliments and timid belief that you can defeat the forces of darkness,
the cartoonish set pieces create a light-heartened environment
contrasting a time when everything was covered in gloom and the plague.
It doesn't shop at Hot Topic and paint its walls black while listening
to The Cure and reading Edgar Allen Poe. We're past that phase mom.

Like peasants scavenging for scraps to live, health becomes a resource
between escapades rather than resetting at the beginning of each
section. Since there are no checkpoints, this can make longer levels,
especially with the placement of regeneration near the end, more
stressful, but it's completely doable as you acquire vials increasing
your maximum life storage. Despite being a remake though, where this
game starts to show its age is in the imprecise controls and combat.
It's been an issue with a lot of the recent redesigns from the PS1 or
PS2 era, with the *Crash Bandicoot* Turtle level coming to mind forming a
minor brain aneurysm.

Platforming can be slippery as you glide off an edge into the water,
costing you one full health bottle. Close quarters combat is essentially
flailing around an enemy, and sometimes having the hitbox not register.
Long range attacks rely on toggleable auto aiming, but can be finicky
with enemy selection or suddenly change to the nearest target instead of
the one you've been shooting at. They have introduced the ability to
equip a primary and secondary weapon, along with the Dan Cam to combat
awkward camera angles, but it's those dated elements that remind the
player this is a PS1 game with a graphical enhancement.

The humorous journey on a quest for redemption is an enjoyable
throwback, and thankfully not a reminder of our place in the feudal
system or a torture session on the wheel. While the return to the past
can reveal the flaws of the time, it's not a stretch on the rack that
*Medievil* gets a 4 out of 7. Happy nerds, I didn't make a single Iron
Maiden reference for your historical accuracy.