---
title: 'Animal Crossing: New Horizons'
date: 2020-05-2 12:00:00
author: 'Caleb Upson'
image: ../../images/animalcrossingnh.jpg
tags:
    - Game Reviews
---

Why do I like this? Sure, I could consult YouTube for a plethora of
videos describing how it's a satire on capitalism that also acts as an
escape for Millennials to achieve the base American Dream of owning a
house. I could also listen to some podcast escribing how the simplistic,
relaxed gameplay allows people to slow down in real life and appreciate
the beauty in the mundane. Maybe I'll write a saucy manifesto about how
I met K.K. Slider when he was just making a name for himself. But, I
don't really give a shit because I know what makes this game appealing:
Progression.

From the onset of the island, *Animal Crossing* says "you can do
whatever you want," but it sets milestones to provide general direction.
That sense of progression gives meaning to your method. Need a new root
vegetable trading space to sell turnips on what every good economic
market is based? Congratulations, your loan payment on the botanical
safe house is the reachable objective. The museum collectathon urges
players to complete the critterpedia, which can take a full year to fill
because the game plays in real-time. That means certain fish and bugs
are only available during select seasons based off your hemispheric
location. Even island customization goes beyond personal aesthetics
since you can achieve a five-star rating from Isabelle.

*Animal Crossing* is such a slow burn, and given that certain events
like a shop remodel can take a real-time day to finish, you need to give
the player a reason to come back. The first thirty hours accomplish that
as you unlock new tools, structures, and furniture. You can explore
random islands to collect additional resources, and discover new
characters to bring back in another failed attempt at satisfying Tom
Nook's insatiable thirst for a monopolistic stronghold over people. As
your island grows each new villager brings a unique personality, and
passive aggressive comments that you haven't talked to them in a while,
to round out your tropical living.

My favorite part about this game is the fishing. Running around trying
to collect every breed and the satisfaction at finally catching a
Stringfish is comparable to waking Blathers from his afternoon snooze.
So why the everlasting fuck do I need to individually craft each and
every fish bait I need to catch that beautiful bastard? I'm assuming
Nintendo told their UI guy to eat ass because interactions can
make the rope in the closet sound very appealing. Requiring each item to
be individually crafted is dumb. This game is meant to have a very long
play life, and that means small annoyances become monumental
disadvantages. Walking down the street with a pebble in your shoe,
bearable. Having to run a whole marathon with it in your shoe... around
mile five you consider amputating the entire foot.

I also thought I had finally gotten rid of *Sega Bass Fishing* for the
Dreamcast, but apparently, it was reborn in *Animal Crossing* because
all you catch are bass. Oh wow another Sea Bass, no wait it's
more of a C+. HahahHAhaHahA. You cannot change the pun levels like you can the joke frequency in *Bubsy*. Every time I dig up a Manilla clam I get to hear vanilla is my favorite
flavor. When I catch a Black Bass, I'm reminded that it's the most metal
of all fish. When I decide to make out with a .22, I'll be told it's a
blast.

When booting up a game that wants you to play every day, convenience is
king. Online multiplayers get you into the action as fast as possible.
Load a screen, hit a button, enter a lobby, and boom you're in the game.
What you can't do is create multiple friction points because once the
expedited progress slows down you start losing players. In a game that
makes medial chores and tasks cutsey fun, if it starts feeling like
work, I don't want to play anymore. The drop rates for certain fish are
very rare. The Stringfish alone was an ordeal of around 120 bait. That
meant I had to walk around digging up clams to be assaulted by the same
vanilla pun, go to a workbench, individually craft bait that the
character would show off, and then repeat the process 120 more times.
Then I could go fish. Just catching bass after bass after bass until God
decided I had suffered enough and granted me peace. Now when I want
another rare fish that process can start all over again, which is not
appealing.

This doesn't just extend to the fish, it's present to some degree
throughout the entire game. Why do I need Blathers to assess every
fossil each time before I can find out if it's donatable? Why can't I
just buy multiple items at once especially from the nook terminal? Why
do the insects also have the same issue of rarity? Why can't I just
connect to my friends through our Switch ID? Why can't I just buy an
island getaway ticket from the Dodo when he asks me where to go? Why do
I have to go through the same five dialogue boxes for tasks the game
expects me to do multiple iterations of? Why is there no settings app on
your phone so you can speed up text or turn off puns?

Like the tumor of hustle culture and unrelenting corporate expectations,
the creep of work into our personal lives becomes more apparent the
deeper you go. The upside is these cons don't begin carrying much weight
until you've settled into the game and gotten a fair amount of Nook
Miles out of it. The only potential area of continued harm is if
seasonal events continue in the vein of Bunny Day where all the fun
parts of the game were replaced with eggs that you could use to make
dumbass egg furniture. At that point, you can use the rope in the closet
to string up that furry son of a bitch.

The ocean breeze and laid-back escape to your own island resort,
especially considering the current global pandemic confining everyone to
their homes, is an enjoyable distraction during these apocalyptic times.
Life is a never-ending series of medial tasks, but now it's a lot cuter
with Timmy and Tommy threating to break my knee caps if I don't pay back
Nook's zero-interest loan by Friday for *Animal Crossing: New Horizons*
to get a strong 5/7.