---
title: 'Shadow of the Colossus'
date: 2020-05-26 12:00:00
author: 'Caleb Upson'
image: ../../images/colossus.jpg
tags:
    - Game Reviews
---

I've always felt conflicted about *Ico*. It helped validate videogames
as an art form with minimalist storytelling that explores concepts
around connection and loneliness, but the combat is dog shit boring and
escorting Yorda around the castle is like herding cats. Fumito Ueda, the
creator, has always attempted to craft an immersive experience that
evokes an emotional response from the player, asking them to take an
introspective look from open ended tales. *Shadow of the Colossus* is
the spiritual successor to *Ico* and in some capacity a prequel.

The game opens with Wander, a young man entering forbidden lands,
carrying a deceased girl, Mono, into the lone temple. Laying the girl
upon an altar, Wander strikes a deal with talking sunlight that if he
kills the Colossi roaming the land, Mono will be revived. This sparse
introduction and quick reluctance to accept an impossible proposition
are the slow mechanizations Ueda uses to gradually engross the players
psyche. With the stage set, Wander traverses a massive, barren world to
slay the giants. Traveling on horseback and using a mystical sword to
guide his path, it becomes apparent that no other life encompasses the
changing terrain. From deserts and beautiful shimmering bodies of water
to the decaying remnants of civilization past, the echoes of hoofs on
the ground become a reminder that you are alone until the next showdown.

The titan encounters build upon the feeling of insignificance in the
presence of still nature. Towering over Wander, the slow, heavy strikes
of goliaths seek to crush him with unstoppable force as he hangs on for
dear life scaling their looming limbs in search of the Achilles heel.
When found, brutal stabbings form the method of execution as the
behemoths cry in agony before their thundering fall. The initial
killings as you extinguish the last remnants of life in the area bring
doubt to the morality of your expedition, weighing the unwarranted
sacrifice against selfish desire, but with each slain Colossus
reservation is replaced with justification.

The intentionality of each component and Ueda's focus on an open-ended
fable offers a deep well of meaning that endures fifteen years later.
The malleable impression of the game molds to the individual as we ask
what we're willing to undertake for personal desire, our place in the
cycle of life, and our struggle to defy the inevitable in nature and
ourselves. The measured descent is a captivating experience that
culminates into gargantuan proportions of intensity as your gunning it
down the back of a Colossus to land the fatal blow. Just as the spirit
of a fallen hulk envelops Wander, staining his hands and transforming
his soul, so too does *Shadow of the Colossus* immerse the player.
But...

Fuck these clunky, shitbag controls that constantly rip you out of the
experience as you wait for the dumbass AI to realize it's supposed to do
something. Scaling these giant assholes can create epileptic camera
angles that further contort your movement as Wander freezes in place
unsure if up means up or down or now up again Jesus Christ just let me
move. I saw a comment once that said the bad controls actually made the
experience because it hammered the point of insignificance and inability
in ourselves to combat the overpowering will of the universe, which
reminded me of the time me and a friend discussed an exit door as an art
installation piece in the Art Institute of Chicago causing one man
listening to our conversation to stand in utter confusion for a solid
ten minutes unsure if what he was looking at was actually art or if we
were completely full of shit. It's the latter, which is what that
cockamamie horsehocky of a comment is.

The emotional powerhouse of Frankenstein's David and Goliath is still a
tour de force in pushing the boundaries of what a videogame can be, and
the remastered version finally gives it the graphical accomplishment it
deserves, but it's hindered by the outdated controls that muddle the
full effect it can have on someone. *Shadow of the Colossus* is truly a
work of art, and stabs a big boy down to its doom with a resounding 5
out of 7.