---
title: 'The Star Wars Prequels'
date: 2020-06-26 12:00:00
author: 'Caleb Upson'
image: ../../images/prequels.jpg
tags:
    - Movies
---

I've always been late to the game on pretty much any review or thought
out criticism as it pertains to media. Especially TV shows, movies, and
generally any visual medium. Now that doesn't mean I won't have strong
opinions on the subject, because I will. Instead, that means my opinion
will fall on deaf ears or be expressed way past a "reasonable" time
period. Now, I'm about 15 years late to the party in jotting down some
of my biggest thoughts on one of the most controversial trilogies of all
time. The *Star Wars* Prequels.

For all intents and purposes I will assume that anyone reading this has
seen all three films and has a fair understanding of the plot. In short,
the Prequels follow Anakin Skywalker's transformation into Darth Vader
as the Sith assume a position of power to establish the Empire. That
seems like a pretty straightforward story. Compared to the originals,
the basics are already present and the ending to each story line is
known well ahead of time. We know which characters survive because
they're present in the Original Trilogy. We also know what they turn out
to be, but because they're such interesting characters in Episodes 4-6
we're keen to hear their backstory. How did Anakin go over to the dark
side? How did the Sith rise to power? Why was Obi-Wan conveniently
living on the same planet as Luke? What happened to the Jedi Order?
These questions are what compel us to watch the Prequels, and while all
these get answered, the execution is so muddled and confusing that no
wonder people are pissed.

In recent years, there's been a lot of historical rewriting to make
these movies seem passable either due to nostalgic bias, faux
intellectual apologists, or Disney's backdoor marketing campaign to drum
up additional hype for the newest installments in the franchise. These
movies were a big part of my childhood. It became a bonding experience
with my dad (whose nickname was Obi-Wan and even named his new dog after
the character), and we've watched every main line movie together. While
that means I have an affinity for the series, that doesn't mean I'm
going to excuse poor film making in an obvious attempt to exploit that
nostalgia. I do think making these movies was less about money and more
about Lucas trying to create an artistic follow-up to Episodes 4-6, but
his complete control and unrivaled first draft ideas are what led to a
lot of the creative problems.

I'd also like to make another point clear: No other media should be
taken into consideration. The movies are the primary vehicle for these
stories and everything else is expository. The movies are what the
people come for, and where the bulk of every primary plot line should
begin and end. Sure, fan boys go and read all the books and comics, but
every time I hear the argument that to understand a plot point I should
consume some random piece of media they just slapped the franchise name
on; the argument's mute. It's bad story telling. Look no further than a
series like Kingdom Hearts that's so complicated and such a fucking pile
of incoherent babble that the main games are virtually impossible to
follow unless you play everything else. Even when they try to explain
what the player missed in the side installments, it comes off as a
lecture killing any experience the consumer is having. But, I need to
quell that rant to focus on this one about the *Star Wars* Prequels.

The first problem I have is the essence of humanity is largely
non-existent. In the Original Trilogy, it's the Empire v. the Rebels or
simply people (or aliens) v. people (or other aliens). Stormtroopers are
humans. Even without dramatic scenes we can see their humanity through
interspersed conversations, the way they interact with core characters,
and simply because we assume they're human. At no point in the original
trilogy do we believe that Stormtroopers are truly disposable. It's an
understandable military structure with human superiors that order simple
soldiers around, reinforced with characters like Grand Moff Tarkin that
provide a face to the organization.

We can empathize with the Rebels and understand their struggle to
overthrow the Empire. During the final assault on the Death Star in *A
New Hope*, even if you can't remember a single other Rebel's name
buzzing about, they still participate in the conversation with Luke. As
they engage in aerial combat, we feel their tension because they're
apart of the squadron and with each death we feel the rising desire to
win the battle. Those minor characters serve the overall plot and
emotional weight of the scene with only a few lines and minimal screen
time. This happens again at the beginning of Episode 5 with the battle
on Hoth and the ending to Episode 6 when they return to destroy the
Death Star. Not only do we sympathize with their cause, but we can
relate to it because of their visible humanity.

Now contrast this with the Prequels and who's fighting who most of the
time? Well it changes, but the central idea is the same. In Episode 1
it's the Gungans v. robots, and after that it's clones v. robots. Nobody
gives a shit about either of these camps. In Episode 1 there could be an
argument that the Gungans display some humanity, but it's weak. They're
not central to either side. Acting as a third party dragged into a
conflict they don't care about before disappearing after the end
credits. Their spokesperson is also Jar Jar Binks, which I'm not going
to harp on, but he immediately makes us annoyed with the species as a
whole. Then in Episode 2 it switches to Clones. Soulless bodies only
meant to die after proving time and again that they are disposable tools
with no allegiance to either side. They were just created in a factory
with no belief system we can relate to. We rarely see any actual faces
from the clones because they all literally have the exact same face.
Contrast that with the Stormtroopers in the Original Trilogy that we
don't see the face of, but we still see the human faces of their
superiors. We know they're human. We know that these are people. Their
lives have a meaning and they wholeheartedly believe in their cause even
if we don't agree with it. That's where the sense of tension comes from.
A battle of ideologies, the struggle between Good and Evil. Meanwhile,
the clones are just mindless husks that only serve whoever made them to
fight robots we don't give a single shit about.

In the Original Trilogy, Droids are present, but they don't fight the
wars. They are tools meant to aid them in battle. The human element is
still present, and therefore the tension of conflict. Then in the
Prequels they say fuck it and just use robots that have no independent
thinking or justifications for their cause. One side is simply clones
that believe in nothing, while the other is robots programmed to fight.
Where is the source of conflict again? Why are they fighting each other?
Why do we care when any of them die? Also, from a consistency standpoint
why would the empire not continue to just use Droids in taking over the
galaxy? Biological soldiers require food, rest, lodging, and other
necessities for survival compared to a robot that needs none of that,
and won't have the potential to disobey orders or require you to justify
the loss of human life in combat to your constituents. It would be much
cheaper in the long run to just continue using robots, especially since
the means of production are already created.

What these large swaths of Droids and Clones are used for is to
establish sweeping battle sequences that have no purpose other than
looking cool, which doesn't even hold true with the passage of time
obliterating early CGI renderings as cheap and fake. When crafting a
battle sequence, there must be some meaning that the audience can relate
to, otherwise it's just boring. Killing means nothing when the people
being killed have no emotional connection with the audience. We become
ambivalent because we can't relate to either group in any meaningful
way. When the characters on the screen don't believe in their cause why
should we?

Translated to the movies, the audience is left with long, seizure
inducing battles that become hollow transitions between plot points.
This doesn't just plague the "war" scenes, but the light saber battles
too. Crisp and clean choreography is great for the first minute as it's
exciting, and then that quickly fades as the audiences is left waiting
until we know who will win, wins. The final battle between Anakin and
Obi-Wan is the embodiment of that as we watch them twirl around for 20
minutes to get to the fucking point.

Episode 1 is even worse with the fight between Darth Maul, Qui-Gon Jinn,
and Obi-Wan. These characters don't talk during the fight. They just
fight and fight and fight until we feel like the ones beaten to death.
Darth Maul barely says a word the whole movie we're just told "man who
look like Devil bad." He has no actual characterization beyond his
looks. The entire battle takes five minutes and during that time only
one word is said. "No". That's it. That's what Obi-Wan yells as Jinn
dies. Then Obi-Wan kills Maul and that's the end. At least in the rest
of the Prequel fights they talk a little to give some half-assed attempt
at delivering meaning even if it falls short. Then you compare those
fights to the Original Trilogy where each battle means something.
Episode 6 Luke is being tempted by Sidious, Episode 5 the revelation
that Darth is Luke's father, Episode 4 the initial presentation of Sith
v. Jedi ideology comes forward when Obi says, "You can't actually kill
me mother fucker."

And that's a glaring problem with these films. Any supposed action is
just a bloated CGI, dance scene that kills off any interest in the first
two minutes and then continues for another ten. Can a movie pretty much
just rely on cool action scenes and still be considered good? Yeah. John
Wick is the prime example of that. Those movies have the most basic plot
in the world and only serve as a loose skeletal structure to watch Keanu
Reeves murder an entire city, but that's why it works. It knows what it
is and we very easily understand why Reeves does what he does. Making
all those action sequences have some basic meaning is what makes it fun.
Theon Greyjoy's arrogance and growing panic as he realizes exactly what
he's done, the fathers acknowledgement of his son's mistake and still
choosing to protect him, and the turning assassins interested in killing
the fabled Boogeyman give these action sequences the contextualization
necessary to keep the audience engaged. Each killing spree takes us one
step closer to seeing justice delivered, and ultimately, is why the
final encounters, where Greyjoy and his father are killed, are so satisfying.
What hinders these action scenes in the Prequels is difficulty in
understanding what's happening or why.

For whatever reason, Lucas decided to try and tell a political thriller
during a galactic war. The plot of each Prequel is so disjointed from
each other as Palpatine's horribly complex plan involving the senate and
the essence of democracy is lost among a large amount of characters with
varying plot lines that don't work together. When telling a story of
this size simplicity is weirdly key. The Original Trilogy had few
diverging plot lines. Episode 4 is just the entire team joining the
rebellion and then going together to destroy the Death Star. Episode
Five splits in two with Luke training and the rest of the group headed
off to Cloud City. Episode Six starts diverging a little too much with
Luke fighting Vader, Lando and gang blowing up the Death Star again, and
Han and Leia on Endor; but it's still easy enough to follow. Each of
those movies keep the plots simple and to the point for the most part.
Now you get into the Prequels and every fucking person has some sort of
weird agenda.

Episode 1 has 4 battles happening at once, but prior to that we are
assaulted with trade law and convoluted political discourse. Episode 2
has Anakin and Padme off making hanky panky; Obi-Wan playing detective;
Palpatine plotting shit in the background; and Mace-Windu, Yoda, and the
rest of the Jedi council dicking around saying cryptic bullshit that has
no meaning. Episode 3 continues that exact same trend, except because
Anakin gets moody and kills a bunch of kids people call it the best one
when all three are just a mess. Each movie is needlessly complicated,
and there's no tension to reward anyone that follows along because we
already know what happens to each character in the end. Palapatine being
Sidious is about as much a mystery as playing "I got your nose" with a
baby. We already know Padme dies. We already know Mace dies. We know
that every single Jedi we see dies. Otherwise, these people would've
been present in the Original Trilogy.

The hardest part about writing a story for the Prequels, or any before
story, is creating a source of tension. When you tell the middle part of
your chronicle first, the audience is left with the knowledge of what's
to come. This limits the types of stories you can tell because why would
the audience invest time in learning something they already know
happens? Often, these origin narratives become a technical roadmap to
reach the audience's source of knowledge laying out plot point after
plot point to fill the space of several installments without trying to
tell a unique storyline. Typically, the best way to approach a story of
this nature is either through a character study or having completely
independent characters set in a time virtually unrelated to the original
setting. Even though *The Hobbit* came first it's still a great example
of a prequel story. Most of the characters have no major significance to
*The Lord of the Rings Trilogy*, and the story is largely independent from what
happens in the later books. You discover how Bilbo came into possession
of the ring, but his journey with the dwarves is their own tale with a
distinctive source of tension.

This is where I'm going to suggest a basic overall plot for the Prequels
that I think would've made these movies more passable. First, get rid of
all the political bullshit that weighs down this "kiddie" movie.
People will remark that these movies are for "kids," and I think that's
a cop out. What kid wants to watch a political
conspiracy made by a senator to assume control and create a
dictatorship, while several characters have emotional conflicts about
the morality of murder and what constitutes good and evil? Fucking none
that's who. The kids watch the action scenes or see Jar-Jar Binks on
screen and think "oh that's cool."

Meanwhile, anyone who's still conscious is subjected to a tonally
confused movie cycle attempting to appeal to as wide of an audience as
possible. As a side note, I've always felt that the Prequels looked too
technologically advanced than the originals. I know that these movies
were made during two separate times in film making, but if you're going
to have a story set like 20 years before the Original Trilogy you can't
have all these sleek looking ships, cities, and technology that don't
appear later. So, the aesthetic look of the Prequels would be much more
in line with the Original Trilogy for consistencies sake, making some
things more rudimentary to coincide with the natural evolution of
technology. With that out of the way the plot I propose is...

If the Jedi are tasked with keeping the peace of the universe and
"bringing balance to the force" then let that be the case. Don't have
them be some awkward hippie circle that makes vague prophecies and has
no real effect on anything. The problem with having a senate and a Jedi
Order is why the fuck would the Jedi give any shit about random law
makers debating tax funds? The answer is they wouldn't. It also brings
up awkward questions like does the Jedi serve the senate? What
constitutes a Jedi matter and what constitutes a normal police or army
matter? Who polices the Jedi if they exist outside the Senate control?
And all of this just starts getting too complicated from the get go. The
idea of the Jedi was inspired by Kurosawa samurai films, so a feudal
structure reminiscent of 13th century Japan or Medieval class
structure is more appropriate. The Jedi are akin to the Knight Order
that serve under a head Monarchy or work directly with them to handle
disputes over the reigning territories.

The Jedi Order will still be somewhat independent from the established
nobility/feudal government. The Emperor sees the Jedi as a great asset
to ensure peace is maintained throughout the Empire, and the Jedi work
with the Empire to push for the greater good. Yoda is the head of the
Knights and Palpatine is actually the second-in-command, which gives
more credibility to him being a Sith Lord and not just some normal
politician. In the beginning, the Sith are believed to have been
defeated long ago by the Jedi. With Yoda focusing on the Jedi Council
and solving disputes within the Federation, he's unaware that the Sith
threat has returned. This gives Palpatine the opportunity to scheme
undetected, and justifies Yoda's self-isolation on Dagobah and
reluctance to teach Luke in the ways of the force during the *The Empire
Strikes Back* because of his failure to stop the Sith in the prequels.
Palpatine would better serve as a Jedi in this story because this adds
to his mentorship over Anakin more than just "I have a vague story about
not letting your wife die in child birth so you should murder people."

Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan are tasked with going to Tatooine to help
protect villages that are being raided frequently. Before leaving Jinn
discusses with Obi-Wan about needing to take on a pupil of his own.
Obi-Wan is hesitant to accept the responsibility, but Jinn reassures him
that he's ready. Once they arrive on Tatooine, they begin asking around
the village for any information that can help identify the leader of the
raid groups. They meet Anakin's mother who's able to help them unravel
the details of the situation and offers lodging for the night to
introduce Anakin. The weight of the raids along with the revelation
about the treatment of slaves in the area pushes his mother to beg
Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan to take Anakin with them so he can live a better
life. Jinn takes an interest in the boy, but Obi-Wan informs her they
are only here for the mission.

Jinn and Obi-Wan have a private conversation later that night where Jinn
brings up the possibility of Obi-Wan taking Anakin under his wing.
Obi-Wan is reluctant, but Jinn mentions how the force works in
mysterious ways and it could be saying something with this boy. They
finish the discussion with no affirmative action before going to bed.
They are all awoken in the middle of the night as a large-scale raid
takes place. Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan run out to protect the villagers. As
they fight off several of the raiders Anakin enters the scene in search
of his missing mother. Qui-Gon tries to protect Anakin from one of the
raiders, but is fatally wounded causing Obi-Wan to go into a rageful fit
where he kills the last of the raiders. Sadly, the village is decimated
and very few survivors are left. Anakin's mother is revealed to have
died in one of the fires, and with the words of his deceased master
ringing in his ears Obi-Wan decides to take the newly orphaned Anakin
with him. Then you time skip that shit because no one wants to watch the
dumb kid stuff. So far, we're about thirty to fourty-five minutes into
the first movie and we've already accomplished everything Episode One
attempted to create.

After the time leap, Anakin is shown to be a competent pupil but his
desire to save everyone leads to an idealistic nature that fuels his
arrogance and emotional fragility. Him and Obi-Wan have gone on several
missions that improves their bonds and sets them on equal footing as the
master-pupil relationship is dissolved. This sets the grounds for the
main mission of Episode One, to rescue a prominent family of nobles from
a recent rebellion where they are being held captive. The rebellion is
threating to blow up a major production facility, that if destroyed
would cause massive problems and cause doubt of the current emperor's
regime. The destruction of the plant would also result in the
surrounding area being destroyed and killing a bunch of people and their
families that operate the plant. This is where we get introduced to
Padme, who is something like a Duchess.

Padme would embody the same strong willed woman that Leia was because
for God's sake she's her mother. Padme while initially saved by Anakin
also saves his ass as they flirt, giving us a call back to Episode 4 and
presenting us with an opportunity for the pair to bond outside of the
coarseness of sand and awkward field rolling. While Anakin is off saving
her, Obi-Wan encounters Darth Maul who has been tasked with ensuring the
destruction of the facility. Their duel ends in a draw as the plant
reaches critical status before Darth Maul escapes; believing his mission
has been accomplished. The group is able to divert some of the reactors
power to prevent any casualties, but part of the plant is still
destroyed.

On their return, Obi-Wan discusses the return of the Sith with Yoda and
Palpatine who now believes the mastermind of the Sith is Darth Maul
instead of the wrinkly boy. The Emperor is still furious with Anakin and
Obi-Wan for allowing part of the plant to explode. Anakin is frustrated
that his good deed of protecting the villagers is overlooked for the
Emperor's personal image. His idealistic self is at odds with the
Emperor's reaction, and Obi-Wan does little to smooth things over.
Instead he opts to lecture Anakin about understanding different
perspectives and where his focus should lie. This mistake along with the
return of the Sith gives Palpatine the opportunity to instill doubt in
the Emperor's mind that Yoda will be able to confidently navigate the
problems ahead. Finally, we have the reveal of Darth Maul working for
Palpatine the whole time as they plan their next course of attack to
destabilize the Jedi. Palpatine also chastises Maul for not killing
Obi-Wan and nearly letting the plan fail.

The next two movies flow into each other. Instead of the Clone Wars
meaning jack shit other than a poor vehicle to get us to Count DooDoo,
the wars can be located on another planet and be representative of some
power struggle against the elites. Anakin and Obi-Wan can meet some of
the Clones and start to question whether they deserve to die. As Anakin
wrestles with this dilemma, some of those Clones die and that further
cracks Anakin's view of the world reflecting his own experience on
Tatooine. I don't know kill a clone kid that'll add some emotional
weight.

Palpatine sees the conflict and confusion within Anakin's heart and
starts to persuade him to the dark side that he's been a part of all
along. That way, we as the audience can really start to see and
understand his transformation into Darth Vader. There's also one large
point about Anakin in the Prequel's that I think is overlooked by Lucas
and most criticism. Anakin is supposed to be redeemable. Episode 6 tells
us that. Even throughout the Original Trilogy as Vader kills rebels he
never truly does anything that we may consider irredeemable. Then when
he sacrifices himself to save his son and kill Sidious, effectively
"ending the Empire," in the eyes of the audience he has atoned for his
sins. But, when you have him murder a bunch of innocent children you
throw that all away. It's needlessly cruel, and fucking stupid. Now,
don't think I'm sitting here saying "my god how could you have kids die
in a movie." A few sentences ago I said go ahead and murder clone
children if it serves the plot, but Anakin playing reverse orphan on a
bunch of pointless kids makes it hard for a lot of audiences to see him
as redeemable in the end even when he blew up a whole fucking planet.

Now I want to take a quick moment to compare those two scenes and how
they affect Vader's redemption arc. When he blows up the planet he is
the embodiment of the Empire. He doesn't give a shit at that point and
only the strong hand of the Empire is what matters, but we as the
audience understand that. That scene really portrays the power and
ruthlessness of the Empire as a whole, instead of just Vader. It's an
act of war in a time of war.

Meanwhile, Anakin kills those kids for basically no reason. Palpatine
makes some vague mention of saving Padme from dying at child birth and
so that means Anakin needs to kill a bunch of kids? Then we as the
audience watch him do it... kind of. The scene doesn't really make any
statement since we have a hard time understanding why he does it. It
leaves a sour taste in your mouth and allows people to say "how dark the
film really is." That's horseshit and bad writing and tarnishes Vader's
personal journey throughout the Original Trilogy.

Instead, just have Palpatine go "oh yeah war totally sucks brah and the
only true way to prevent suffering is through absolute power, and you
know what can give you that? The Dark Side." Anakin goes no, but then
witnesses more bad shit and comes to Palpatine for guidance. Honestly,
the real push over the edge for Anakin should be Padme dying. Not trying
to prevent it, but because he couldn't prevent it and he wants to ensure
that it never happens to his children. Maybe Padme joins them on a
mission and gets killed from a bomb or something. Anakin blames himself
and sees how powerless he is in the universe so he's actually seduced by
the Dark Side. Then have him try to recruit Obi-Wan since they're
friends, but Obi-wan refuses and conspires with Yoda to escape with the
children. Obi-Wan defeats Anakin and they flee. Now Anakin completes his
transformation into Vader and sets out to control the galaxy and find
his kiddos. Wam bam thank you ma'am.

Mace Windu gets to play detective under orders from Yoda who has become
slightly paranoid that there could be a Sith amongst them. Palpatine has
slowly turned the Emperor against the current Jedi Order by sowing
mental doubt and using it as an opportunity to easily influence him with
force powers. Palpatine plans to seize the throne after poisoning the
Emperor to imitate a natural death, but Windu discovers the poison in a
confrontation with Palpatine and the Emperor. Palpatine kills both, but
uses Windu as a scape goat to cast the Jedi in a negative light and pins
the blame on Yoda by saying he ordered Windu to assassinate the Emperor
in a plot to control the throne. With Palpatine now in control he orders
the execution of any remaining Jedi.

As Palpatine was seducing Anakin, Darth Maul became increasingly jealous
at his master abandoning him for another pupil. He vows to kill Obi-Wan
to bring about redemption in Palpatine's eyes, but during their
inevitable showdown Obi-Wan kills him. The Jedi destroyed, and Yoda and
Obi-Wan escaping, the technical details are finalized for the original
trilogy with a character focus on how one man turns from good to evil.
Now, does any of this matter? Not at all. Unless they remake the
Prequels in twenty years and use this essay as a baseline for the
script, but it does bring me to my larger point with these movies.

One thing I see as a series becomes successful and new iterations are
added is the attempt to explain things that should never be explained.
We as the audience just accept them for what they are. When you start
trying to explain those things with no clear direction it only spells
destruction. Look at how the Prequels handled The Force.

The Force should not be picked apart scientifically. There should have
been no dumb ass mention of Midi-chlorins (which just sounds like George
misheard the joke "Mitochondria are the powerhouse of the cell" and put
it in the script). The Force constantly defies what's "scientific." It's
why Luke puts away his targeting system. It's why Obi-Wan makes Luke
practice blind in the millennium falcon. It's all the lines Yoda quotes
during training that my dad has said to me more times over than I can
count.

When you take something like "the Force," which for years is assumed to
be a natural feeling inside each of us, and discount it as "oh the
psychic bullshit I came up with is just because you have enough
Mitochondria in your body" you really fuck up. The Force was great
because theoretically before the first Episode anyone could picture
themselves using it. Everyone could be a Jedi master because they simply
had to be in tune with the world around them. What makes a story great
is a main character that we as the audience can relate to, and when you
just reduce the hero's journey (and more accurately our journey) to just
whoever has the higher arbitrary cell count you kill what makes "The
Force" so special.

And that's probably the hardest thing with these movies. It's not the
inhuman experience, loss of tension, boring characterization, barely
understandable plot, or retrospectively some of the outdated CGI work. It's
that these movies feel so disconnected from the world that we know, real
or fictional. I think in some ways no matter what happens every *Star
Wars* film after the Original Trilogy will have problems among fans or
reviewers, but I believe this is a two-way street. On one hand, the
rabid fan base demands perfection, but on the other, studio executives
are so clueless as to what made people fall in love with the Originals
in the first place.

I've seen people blame actors like Hayden Christiansen, but honestly,
they did the best they could with what they had. No matter how good an
actor is, the performance can never outweigh the story. In fact, nothing
can outweigh the story. Not CGI, abundant sex scenes, multiple twists,
or elaborate design. If the story is a loosely pieced together first
draft then the audience will see it for what it really is. An act of
manipulation. In trying to be the flashiest, eye-catching thing that
garners as many people as possible they exclude long term gain for short
term compensation. I'm not saying it's easy, but to capture as many
people as possible and to have a lasting effect on an audience (and if
you're a studio on the overall cultural sphere that gives you more
money) then invest in a strong story that appeals to our humanity. You
do that and people won't give a shit what kind of toys, clothes, or
monopoly set you produce because they will have the joyful connection to
the source material. Why else do you think the Original Trilogy has been
such a cultural force for 40 years?