---
title: 'Spider-Man (2018)'
date: 2020-08-08 12:00:00
author: 'Caleb Upson'
image: ../../images/spiderman.jpg
tags:
    - Game Reviews
---

Prior to 2000's *Spider-Man* for the PS1, superhero videogames typically
consisted of shitty 2D-platformer beat 'em ups, guest appearances in
fighting games, or arcade cabinets meant to generate a profit.
Adaptations of famous comic book characters resulted in one turd after
another, with the daddy rabbit of them all, *Superman 64*, coming out
one year before *Spider-Man*. The difficulty of translating these
characters to playable counterparts is a result of their inherent
design. Most superheroes have a limited repertoire of mechanics and
their environment interactions don't lend to cohesive piloting.

Thor has a hammer with some lightning blasts, the Flash runs really
fast, Wonder Woman has her lasso and sword, but none of them have the
large variety in their arsenal to bring deep gameplay that remains
interesting over the course of fifteen plus hours. Their individual
movement capabilities also have a difficult time interacting with a game
world situation. Being able to fly doesn't translate that well to
gameplay because you're piloting a character in a 360-degree space.
Ascending and descending along a Z-axis interrupts fluid motion when
your character can remain stationary in the air; forcing clunky combat
requiring the player to establish the two-dimensional plane to strike an
enemy or the other alternative of relying on auto-targeting and stale
combo button mashing.

The reason games like *Marvel: Ultimate Alliance* and *Injustice* work
is because they have the variety of a large roster and force each
character into the same plane of movement. *Marvel: Ultimate Alliance*
is top down and simply makes characters that can fly levitate off the
ground instead of walking, and *Injustice* is just a fighting game
pitting characters in an X-Y axis. But, neither of these is the solo
hero 3-D action-adventure title studios have tried to capture. After
2000's *Spider-Man* and the Toby McGuire movie game tie-ins that used
the PS1 game as a basis, *Batman: Arkham Asylum* and its subsequent
sequels really became the only other successful ventures into the genre.

Both characters lend themselves to medium crossover because they meet
the above criteria. Batman and Spider-Man are known for having a
collection of gadgets that can be integrated into the game by enhancing
combat or tackling an assortment of puzzles. The detective nature in
their respective series adds to the unraveling narrative as they look
for clues creating the opportunity for stealth sections. The scheming
and criminal villains they face aren't just forces of unstoppable
destruction, giving developers options to create side content around
their foes dastardly plans. Both characters are grounded in more
normalcy despite their caped crusading. Instead of gallivanting around
the world or universe with laser vision and the power of the gods on
their side; they each reside in recognizable cityscapes, can still feel
the effects of getting shot with a bullet, and have to rely on martial
arts or human wit to defeat enemies rather than raw strength or
indestructability alone.

While the 2000's *Spider-Man* and *Arkham Asylum* were very linear, more
level-based games; when *Batman: Arkham City* was released it introduced
an open-world concept. Now, the player could explore the city of Gotham
completing missions and collecting achievements in a bounded environment
while gaining experience to level up gadgets and abilities. It was a
smart way to deliver the familiarity of these superheroes because the
city they inhabit is just as much a part of the character as any of the
villains they face or tragic backstory of a loved one getting 360
no-scoped by a robber. In my opinion though, *Arkham City* was a fairly
mediocre game that offered flat combat consisting of hitting one button
repeatedly with little variety in tackling stealth portions and padded
out errands to make a twenty-hour game forty. Wanna collect 440 stupid
Riddler trophies? Wanna watch multiple canned animations anytime Batman
interacts with something? Wanna do multiple repetitive actions to
accomplish a task when one instance would have sufficed? No? Why do you hate fun you shitzky scum bastard? Now, 2018's *Spider-Man*
has taken all of these elements and the foundations set in the 2000's
title to trim most of the bullshit and craft a tight, exciting
experience that puts you directly in the spider suit.

Easily one of the strongest points Insomniac has accomplished is
movement. Zipping around New York City at sixty miles an hour as
triumphant music plays in the background makes traversing the map a
breeze. In most open world games, you'd be stuck driving from one
destination to the next using outdated controls while facing the minor
inconvenience of traffic or scaling building at
a snail's pace to jump across the rooftops. The landscape becomes an
obstruction to movement; elongating downtime as the trend of developing
larger and larger maps continues.

Instead of the city becoming a hindrance, *Spider-man* turns it into an
unobtrusive obstacle course. You don't have to deal with swaths of NPC's
blocking your path as you stumble through the streets because you're
swinging around the open air. Rather than go around a building, you can
run up their walls before launching yourself across their top ledge to
shoot yourself forward. Aerial movement isn't held back by adjustment
along the Z-axis since gravity controls your descension and the seamless
pendulum of the web puts the rotation point outside of the player.

Now, when incorporating aerial strikes into combat it's not about the
player having to manually establish the plane of encounter, it simply
requires the player to time their attack with assisted targeting. Swing
up, let gravity drop you, aim your attack on the decline, and strike. It
works well to continue your combos, and offers quick escape or easy
isolation of an enemy as you knock them into the sky to continue daddy's
pummeling before b-lining through the skull of a grounded enemy.
Combined with the integration of gadgets to help tackle various hordes
of enemies, along with the natural dodge system derived from his
Spidy-sense, Spider-man's faster-paced fighting style breaks up the
monotony of simple button mashing. The gadgets also translate to the
stealth sections of the game, giving the player options to scale their
aggressiveness of the situation

Since Spider-man's origin story has been covered by whatever number
reboot we're on, the writer's make the smart decision to focus the story
on Peter Parker's relationships. If you have even a vague understanding
of the *Spider-man* universe every plot twist is as transparent as
pristine glass. Parker's working for Doc Oc before he turns into an
insane person, gee I wonder how this is going to turn out? Martin Li is
in control of the Chinese Demon gang as it's revealed he's actually
Mister Negative, you don't say? Norman Osborn is still a dick, who would
have guessed? Miles Morales gets bit by a radioactive spider to give him
similar powers, can you say sequel?

Instead, the story's focus is on Parker trying to balance the role of a
hero with the role of a boyfriend, a pseudo-son, a scientist, a nephew,
a mentee, and a mentor. The main people he interacts with are fleshed
out to understand their motivations as it relates to each role making
them stand-out as characters rather than set pieces. Parker and Mary
Jane's romantic involvement is stressed as he tries to shield her from
the danger he attracts, and her push to be treated as an equal that can
help him, is a growth point for both through the narrative. The conflict
of Martin Li's good deeds through F.E.A.S.T. and Doc Oc's work on
advanced prosthetics compared to their quest for revenge against Osborn
reflects the struggle Peter has from admiring both men and his desire to
emulate the perceived greatness he believes in. The pain Miles Morales
feels from losing his father is the same Peter feels about the loss of
Uncle Ben, and in order to prevent Miles from falling into despair,
Peter offers his guidance. Parker's attempts to prevent Aunt May from
worrying, and the eventual decision between a selfish gesture of a man
versus the weighted call of a hero, represents the similar aspiration to
do something outside of yourself. While the tale takes stock of and
explores these aspects, it also leads to some drawbacks.

The beginning section features Parker finally taking down Wilson Fisk,
aka Kingpin, which sets in motion the unraveling of the criminal
underworld. Yet, it doesn't lead to the whole selling point of a roster
of Spider-man's greatest foes coming together to defeat him. Instead,
you fight Shockwave then wait 10 hours for the first fight with Mister
Negative before Electro, Rhino, Scorpion, and Vulture are hastily thrown
in towards the end for a few two-on-one boss fights. Technically, you
can optionally fight Tombstone and Taskmaster by completing side
objectives a little later in the game, but the whole point of these
games is not to run around only dispatching henchmen like your popping a
pez dispenser, it's to fight the iconic villains from the series. It
would've been better to have mini boss fights with the individual
villains so they get captured; then later in the game after the whole
jail break you can have the two-on-one fights.

With the story focal point on character relationships, they decide to
bring Mary Jane and Miles Morales more into the mix, which makes for
these really dumb stealth parts where they crouch along a preplanned
path sometimes knocking over things to distract a guard. You can't
really lose these portions as long as you follow the script. Contrasted
with the Spider-man sections, where you're jumping around vantage points
using your gadgets in creative ways or using a take-down attack to
silence an enemy, these sections with MJ and Miles become slowed down
crouching simulators.

The open time between story advancement and the final fights is filled
with tasks to gain additional experience and tokens to upgrade your suit
and equipment. Some of the tasks are nothing more than mindless padding,
like the landscape missions or the backpack tokens, but most are short
enough that any tedium is minimal until you reach the later half of the
game. Crime objectives are the primary offender here as they drop ninety
of them on you in the last third of the game. Then tokens like the Black
Cat photo locations are indicative of the subtle, not-so-subtle way of
the game kicking you in the shin to let you know there will be
additional content, which ends up detracting from the main game.

While the final act is trying to be told they spend time setting up DLC
or sequel points. Silver Sablinova starts talking about needing some
time away, but will be back. Those Black Cat tokens are just twelve
instances of the game going: "She is planning a heist that Spider-man
will be involved with, but in order to find out you'll have to pay for
the other parts of the story." MJ fails to notice a special spider
crawling around her back from Osborn's secret lab, alluding to Miles
being the main character in the next game. The overall main story is
still good, but these insinuations all coming up in the back half of the
game undercuts the focus of the plot it's all been building towards.

But, what this game does build towards and what this game accomplishes
sets the bar for these 3-D superhero adventures to a new high.
Spider-man continues to be one of the strongest characters in making the
shift to videogames with *Toby McGuire's Pro Swinger* achieving a high
5/7.